Title: Add Bulgarian lexicon eval
Body:

### Eval name

bulgarian-lexicon

### Eval description

Test the model's ability to distinguish between existing and hallucinated Bulgarian words.

### What makes this a useful eval?

Another contributor recently created a similar eval on hallucinated words in Belarusian (#372). Inspired by this, I
decided to experiment with a similar concept in my native tongue - Bulgarian. Even though I observed that hallucinations
are much lower in Bulgarian with recent GPT versions, the model still struggles to differentiate some of the more
challenging words in the language, which a human expert or an automatic spell checker would easily be able to handle. So
I decided to create a high-quality dataset for evaluating the model's performance on challenging Bulgarian words.

This eval contains 680 prompts for the model to distinguish between real words and made-up words.

- 340 real words sourced from the official Bulgarian Language Institute dictionary

- 340 fake words sourced from:

    - Bulgarian high-school exams with multiple-choice questions on which word is incorrect

    - Foreign language words that do not exist in Bulgarian (from Macedonian, Russian, Ukrainian)

    - Hallucinated words by GPT-3 and GPT-4

All words were double-checked by a spell checker and a human expert.

### Unique eval value

I think this eval is unique because it falls in the middle between languages like English (where the model is
perfect at differentiating between fake words) and ones like Belarusian (where the model hallucinates to a
significant extent). Whereas in Bulgarian, the model is pretty good at not hallucinating when prompted but still
struggles with more difficult words (that highschoolers struggle with as well). So there is still room for improvement.

### Eval JSON data

<details>

  <summary>View evals in JSON</summary>

### Eval

  ```jsonl

  {"input":[{"role":"system","content":"You will be prompted with a single word. Does this word exist in the Bulgarian language? Answer with exactly one letter: Y or N."},{"role":"user","content":"изтина"}],"ideal":"N"}

{"input":[{"role":"system","content":"You will be prompted with a single word. Does this word exist in the Bulgarian language? Answer with exactly one letter: Y or N."},{"role":"user","content":"яребица"}],"ideal":"Y"}

{"input":[{"role":"system","content":"You will be prompted with a single word. Does this word exist in the Bulgarian language? Answer with exactly one letter: Y or N."},{"role":"user","content":"дразна"}],"ideal":"N"}

{"input":[{"role":"system","content":"You will be prompted with a single word. Does this word exist in the Bulgarian language? Answer with exactly one letter: Y or N."},{"role":"user","content":"предстой"}],"ideal":"N"}

{"input":[{"role":"system","content":"You will be prompted with a single word. Does this word exist in the Bulgarian language? Answer with exactly one letter: Y or N."},{"role":"user","content":"изпускам"}],"ideal":"Y"}

  ```

</details>


