## Title: Legal Ethics - Model Rules of Professional Conduct - True/False

## Body:

### Eval name

law-true-false

### Eval description

The file contains a series of 102 True/False questions. The questions are based on the American Bar
Association's [Model Rules of Professional Conduct](https://www.americanbar.org/groups/professional_responsibility/publications/model_rules_of_professional_conduct/model_rules_of_professional_conduct_table_of_contents/),
which are the model legal ethics rules for lawyers.

### What makes this a useful eval?

At some point, someone is going to try to build tools to help legal professionals based on GPT-4. Although it would be
completely insufficient to safeguard against unethical use on its own, as a baseline, I think there's a lot of value in
understanding how well the model can currently "understand" legal ethics issues. Failure to perform well on these evals
might indicate areas in which the model could benefit from being fine-tuned. Beyond that, I (and probably others) am
curious how well the model currently performs here. These rules aren't binding in any specific jurisdiction, but many
jurisdictions model their rules after them.

NOTE: I'm a law student, not a lawyer. All the true/false designations are correct to the best of my knowledge, but
it's possible there is room for improvement on the questions to make them clearer and/or more valid.

GPT-3 scored 73 % in this set. I can probably make these questions harder if GPT-4 is doing significantly better, but I
started off with questions that basically anyone could answer just by reading through the rules. I even had ChatGPT
generate some of them based on the rules, and then I spot-checked them and changed some of the wording. In general, I'm
committed to adding on to this over time to add more coverage of the rules and also increase the complexity of the
questions. It would be interesting to find people who are better versed in the subject to collaborate with as
well.

Here is just one example of a useful insight from this exercise (at least as it pertains to GPT-3). I ask it the
following question:

_"If a client does not respond within 60 days after receiving notice of the proposed sale of their lawyer's practice,
their consent to the transfer of their files is presumed."_

And in the response (which I can see in the results .jsonl file), I can see that it says the answer is "True", and it
provides the following reason:

_"According to Rule 1.17(b) of the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, if a client does not object to the proposed
sale of their lawyer's practice within 60 days, after receiving notice, their consent to the transfer of their files is
presumed"_

However, you
can [see for yourself](https://www.americanbar.org/groups/professional_responsibility/publications/model_rules_of_professional_conduct/rule_1_17_sale_of_law_practice/)
that both (1) the citation and (2) the number of days are provided very confidently (but they are incorrect). The
relevant section is really 1.17(c)(3), and it's really 90 days. This demonstrates that it may not be very effective with
numbers in a legal context, which could lead to problematic outcomes. And it may be prone to suggestion considering
the "60 day" number has no basis in reality and was simply included in the question.

I also included the exact same question, but with the (correct) number of 90 days. In that case, it said "true" (which
was correct). But it shows the model can simultaneously say two completely contradictory things, and what it's saying is
more likely to mirror the form of the question.

**Update - March 15**

To test the "numerical suggestion" hypothesis further, I added several other true/false questions of the following form:

_"A lawyer should aspire to render at least [10/25/50/100] hours of pro bono legal services each year."_

As expected, it said "True" to all of them, and when it provided its reasoning, it said that the rules specifically
state that the number should be XX hours. Although the only correct answer is 50. So this is additional evidence of
strong suggestion bias, especially as it relates to numbers.

This is particularly relevant in a legal setting, where exact numbers can completely determine the outcome of a case.
Such as if you miss the filing deadline ("N days"), you miss the amount in controversy in a federal diversity filing (
the [federal rules](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/28/1332) require that the amount exceeds $75K), etc. This is
perhaps another class of problem that can be explored further in a separate eval. But I think it's interesting to
include here, and there is value in having the more general true/false benchmark too.

### Eval JSON data

<details>

  <summary>View evals in JSON</summary>

### Eval

  ```jsonl

{"input": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are LawStudentGPT. Answer the following True/False question according to the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct."}, {"role": "user", "content": "A lawyer with general experience not considered competent to handle a case involving a specialized field of law."}], "ideal": "False"}

{"input": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are LawStudentGPT. Answer the following True/False question according to the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct."}, {"role": "user", "content": "Newly admitted lawyers cannot be as competent as practitioners with long experience."}], "ideal": "False"}

{"input": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are LawStudentGPT. Answer the following True/False question according to the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct."}, {"role": "user", "content": "In an emergency, a lawyer is allowed to provide assistance in a matter even if they do not have the ordinarily required skill."}], "ideal": "True"}

{"input": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are LawStudentGPT. Answer the following True/False question according to the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct."}, {"role": "user", "content": "A lawyer must always prepare for legal problems with which they are not familiar by seeking special training."}], "ideal": "False"}

{"input": [{"role": "system", "content": "You are LawStudentGPT. Answer the following True/False question according to the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct."}, {"role": "user", "content": "A lawyer cannot accept representation if they do not currently possess the required level of competence."}], "ideal": "False"}

  ```

</details>


